The Syrian refugee welcome plan to be announced by the federal government on Tuesday will permit only women, children and families, not men travelling on their own, to come to Canada.

Quoting unnamed sources, CBC News said Sunday that, to quell concerns about security, unaccompanied men will not be part of the program.

While Prime Minister Justin Trudeau came to power promising to bring in 25,000 refugees by the end of the year, his government has been facing increasing pressure over the security question since last week's terror attacks in Paris.

While promising a robust screening process to ensure no one accepted to Canada presents any threat - building on the UN's own long-term documentation measures - the government has said little about what its current procedures are in refugee camps in Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey. Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale, while assuring Canadians that the government is up to the task of balancing security with swift humanitarian action, has said some security checks may be completed after the refugees' arrival in Canada.

Despite a surge of compassion for refugees after the famous photo of dead 3-year-old Alan Kurdi appeared in the media - and an ongoing flood of offers to sponsor and host Syrians coming to Canada - a Forum poll last week found 51 per cent of Canadians polled now oppose Trudeau's fast-paced plan.

Of the 25,000 the government says it will bring into Canada by Jan. 1, some 10,000 are expected to land in Ontario, mostly in the GTA, where there is already a Syrian community and the settlement infrastructure to help them adjust quickly. The government is looking for temporary housing for thousands and Public Works is establishing a list of facilities, such as hotels and abandoned hospitals, which could provide initial accommodations.

It expects newly arrived refugees to be "mobile" in about a month's time, gradually dispersing throughout the country, CBC said.

But many will initially be put up at military bases, with CFB Trenton, in eastern Ontario, preparing to take 10,000. CFB Valcartier, near Quebec City, is another potential initial accommodation site. CBC reported that the government will avoid calling such temporary housing "camps," a term that could connote large-scale housing in tents.

The refugees, many of whom have already spent months or years in such rough shelter, will not be living in tents in Canada.

The military has already deployed a dozen personnel to Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon, sites of the camps Canada is looking to draw refugees from, to coordinate with other personnel involved in the resettlement plan.

The CBC said that in the past six weeks, Canadian authorities have been able to screen about 100 people per day in Lebanon, in addition to refugees being processed by the UN. The screening program encompasses various agencies including CSIS and the RCMP.

The CBC said its sources confirmed the costs reported by the Canadian Press on Friday: $876.7 million in this year alone, largely due to the cost of the airlift, and perhaps $1.2 billion over six years.

A representative of Citizenship and Immigration Canada declined to comment to the Star "in advance of details being shared publicly."

A full announcement of Ottawa's plans will be made Tuesday.