The government escalated its confrontation with Russia over the Crimea peninsula Monday, banning cargo trucks from entering the disputed region as activists blocked repairs to power-transmission lines.

The Interior Ministry hasn't identified suspects in weekend blasts in the Kherson region in southern Ukraine that downed electricity pylons serving Crimea, leaving almost two million people without power.

Ukraine's Energy Minister Volodymyr Demchyshyn told the Interfax news agency that explosives had been found at the power lines, preventing repair crews from working.

Meanwhile, pro-Ukrainian activists-many of them from the minority Muslim community of Crimean Tatars-were blocking repair work to press their demands for a tougher line against Moscow. Ukrenergo, the national grid operator, held inconclusive talks Monday with activists in Chonhar, a village near the de facto border with Crimea close to one of four downed pylons.

Ukrainian parliament member Mustafa Djemilev-a leader of the minority Muslim community of Crimean Tatars-said activists would only grant repair workers access to pylons that provide electricity to Ukrainian-held territory.

The Crimean Tatars, who were persecuted during the Soviet era, opposed Russia's annexation of the peninsula last year.

The activists have staked out the border between mainland Ukraine and Crimea since September, attempting to stop commercial trucks from crossing.

The Ukrainian government responded Monday by imposing a temporary ban on trucks ferrying goods to and from Crimea. Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk asked his cabinet to formalize the decree by drafting a law that would "take into account the interests of our brotherly Crimean Tatar people."

"We aren't satisfied with today's status quo, when an occupying power neglects the basic rights of the Crimean Tatar people," said President Petro Poroshenko after a meeting with three European foreign ministers. "Crimea is Ukrainian territory. We will defend the rights of the Crimean Tatar people and all Ukrainians who are living on occupied territory."

The annexation prompted the U.S. and Europe to impose economic sanctions against Moscow and sparked outcry among pro-Ukrainian activists, particularly in the politically active Crimean Tatar community, who say Kiev isn't doing enough to protect its citizens or to return the peninsula to Ukrainian control.

In an interview with the online news portal Liga, Mr. Djemilev said the Crimean Tatars wanted "our political prisoners" in Crimea freed, investigations into a spate of deaths and kidnappings in the Crimean Tatar community, as well as the right for their leaders to visit and live in Crimea. Authorities in Crimea have banned Mr. Djemilev from returning until 2019.

The government's decision heightens tensions with Russia, which in addition to annexing Crimea is supporting pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine's east.

"Kiev's actions against Crimea are an attempt to raise the temperature of the conflict with Russia and return the West's attention to Ukraine, without which the regime will fall," said Alexei Pushkov, head of the international affairs committee in Russia's lower house of parliament, according to the official RIA news agency.

Crimea receives 85% of its water and 80% of its electricity from mainland Ukraine. Goods from Russia can only be ferried to Crimea across a strip of water called the Kerch Strait. A promised bridge and a power-transmission line from Russia's mainland have yet to be built.

Russian officials sought to play down the immediate risk to Crimea.

"The situation in Crimea is difficult but not catastrophic," said deputy government chairman Dmitry Kozak. "Local generators are supplying the peninsula with 30% of its electricity." He said hospitals and major transport hubs were working and promised to speed up the development of a direct power-transmission line from Russia.

Local officials were less sanguine. Crimean leader Sergei Aksyonov said he was prepared to extend a state of emergency implemented over the weekend until late December.

"We believe that it is necessary to prepare for the worst-case scenario," said Mr. Aksyonov, who declared Monday a day off for everyone but state and municipal workers.

Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry said it was rotating power supplies across the peninsula. Local news agencies reported interruptions in phone reception and Internet connection and restrictions on gasoline sales.

Ilya Kiva, head of Ukraine's Interior Ministry's antinarcotics department, told TV channel 112 that officers on the ground had noticed increased activity from Russian-controlled territory nearby, and had bolstered their own forces on the ground after approximately a dozen Russian tanks approached the border.